---
play_number: 3
title: Don't worship efficiency
---

We live in a world—and in a city—of finite resources and infinite need. Spending taxpayers’ money as efficiently as possible is critical to making government work. At the same time, focusing on “efficiency” assumes that we’ve already figured out what services to deliver to residents, and now just have to make it all cheaper. That’s unfortunately not the case.

As a city, we’re continually examining what services we could deliver to residents and how we might fit into their lives. It’s why we built the [Boston 311 application](http://www.cityofboston.gov/doit/apps/311.asp); why we undertook a [year-long research and design process](http://next.boston.gov/updates/2016/7/20/whats-next) for the new Boston.gov website; and why we launched the [“Where’s My Bus” application](http://newurbanmechanics.org/project/wheres-my-school-bus/) for parents of Boston public school students. We could go on. We’re really, really proud to be at the cutting edge of civic technology and civic innovation here in Boston. But we’re at that cutting edge because we’re continually re-thinking what government means to people, not just trying to make it cheaper.

So help us out. Be creative. Tell us about how we can make government more beautiful, more delightful, more emotionally resonant, more thoughtful, and more pleasurable to interact with—not just cheaper.

### Key Questions
- What idea of government is implicit in your product?
- How do you think residents’ perception of their City leaders and City workers will change as a result of your product?
- What benefits can you articulate about your product, other than “cost savings”?
