---
play_number: 4
title: Better decisions, not (just) better data
---

When a new smart city technology is pitched, the costs that the City has to bear are immediate. The benefits, though, are way out in the future. They’re framed in terms like, “the money you’ll save when you can optimize the routes of Public Works employees” or “the money you’ll save from delivering a City service only to those who need it.”

The problem is that those benefits are nebulous and really hard to achieve. They require behavior change—and, sometimes, policy changes—on the part of some other person or department. And behavior change that is dynamic, based on the output and analysis of some data that they didn’t necessarily collect. We’re really far away from knowing how to affect that sort of behavior change within City government. And that’s why, so far, most smart city pilot projects have ended with Powerpoint presentations of data.

So try to move beyond "data," "algorithms," and the like. Let's talk about the stuff that makes those things useful and usable.

### Key Questions
- Have you identified the behavior or policy change associated with your smart city product?
- Do you know how that group’s decision-making actually works? For example, 97% of the City of Boston’s employees are unionized--do their contracts allow for the behavior change or flexibility that you’d like to see?
- What evidence is there to support your claim that the long-term benefits of your product can be achieved in Boston? 
- How does your product make decision-making easy? (We’re not just talking about a pretty interface.)
