---
play_number: 6
title: Towards a "public" privacy policy
---

Sensors aren't new--the Boston Police Department monitors video cameras around the City and the MBTA uses GPS-trackers to sense the location of its trains and buses. But as and when the City starts to use them more frequently and for less obvious use-cases, there will be a sharp focus on our data collection and data management practices. Especially as those use-cases start to generate personally identifiable information (PII) that's collected passively and in the public domain.

Our internal guidance is to collect as little data as possible to solve a particular problem. The truth is, we don't know exactly what that'll mean in the case of sensors and smart cities. We're working with the ACLU, our legal counsel, and our Department of Innovation & Technology to craft a privacy policy for the use of urban sensors. So this is another area where we could use the help. Tell us what data you're collecting; how you're scrubbing it of PII before transmitting it; where and how you're storing the rest of it; and what you're doing to protect people's privacy. 

We'd love to have a City-wide, publicly-available "Privacy Policy" to share with residents and solicit feedback on. You can help us get there.

### Key Questions
- What are your data-sharing and data-management policies?
- How do you deal with the issue of PII and how do your policies comply with existing best practices?
- How will Boston residents and the ACLU react to these policies? Have you spoken to them?